Arizona State's game against Colorado next Saturday at Folsom Field in Boulder has been canceled, the second straight game the Sun Devils will miss due to positive COVID-19 tests.

The Pac-12 announced cancellation of the game Sunday due to Arizona State not having enough scholarship players available to meet the conference's 53-player minimum.

Arizona State's game against California on Saturday was canceled after numerous Sun Devils players and coaches, including head coach Herm Edwards, tested positive for COVID-19.

ASU had opened the season on Nov. 7 with a 28-27 loss to USC in Los Angeles. The first positive cases were reported on Wednesday, forcing ASU to cancel Thursday's practice and conduct more tests.

"The cancellation of another game is very difficult to accept for all of us, but it continues to be the right decision under the circumstances," Arizona State athletic director Ray Anderson said in a statement. "The health, safety and welfare of our student-athletes is our number one priority and will continue to be at the forefront of every decision."

ASU is not releasing the number of cases the Sun Devils are dealing with but the number of players is believed to be in double digits with at least four coaches also affected.

A game between Utah and UCLA scheduled for Saturday also was called off on Friday due to the coronavirus, capping the most tumultuous week of COVID-19 disruptions of the college football season. Of 59 games scheduled for Week 11, 15 were called off.

UCLA and Cal quickly worked to play a game against each other, which the Bruins won 34-10 on Sunday morning at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena.

So far, 64 games involving schools in the Football Bowl Subdivision have been canceled or postponed because of the pandemic since late August. Today's cancellation is the fifth Pac-12 game to be cancelled. Utah has also had two games cancelled.

The Ivy League also announced Thursday that it would become the first Division I conference this year to cancel all winter sports, including men's and women's basketball.

The news comes as the coronavirus cases are soaring across the U.S. 

ASU typically holds media availability with Edwards on Monday, and other coaches and players on Tuesday and Wednesday but all have been cancelled until further notice.