Indonesia is set to become one of the first countries to roll out mass coronavirus vaccinations.

They'll do it by the end of the year, and use Chinese vaccines.

That's according to Indonesia's President Joko Widodo in an interview with Reuters.

Indonesia's government has sought emergency authorization to start the campaign, although it still needs approval from its food and drug agency.

Vaccines produced by China's Sinovac and Sinopharm will be used in its early stages.

They also have a deal for the American-made Novavax later in the process.

Indonesia is the world's fourth most populous country and, like some others, it has struggled to suppress the virus for months.

On Friday, it posted a record daily number of infections of more than 5,400, although cases appear to be plateauing. It's also had about 15,000 deaths.

Widodo says ensuring the vaccine's safety is a priority - and health workers, police, and the military will be first in line when the vaccination campaign begins.

Video Transcript
- Indonesia is set to become one of the first countries to roll out mass coronavirus vaccinations. They'll do it by the end of the year and use Chinese vaccines. That's according to Indonesia's President Joko Widodo in an interview with Reuters. Indonesia's government has sought emergency authorization to start the campaign, although it still needs approval from its food and drug agency.

Vaccines produced by China's Sinovac and Sinopharm will be used in its early stages. They also have a deal for the American-made Novavax later in the process. Indonesia is the world's fourth most populous country. And like some others, it's struggled to suppress the virus for months.

On Friday, it posted a record daily number of infections of more than 5,400, although cases appear to be plateauing. It's also had about 15,000 deaths. Widodo says ensuring the vaccine's safety is a priority, and health workers, police, and the military will be first in line when the vaccination campaign begins.